xv6 Overview

xv6 is a modern re-implementation of Unix Version 6 (v6), originally created by Dennis Ritchie and Ken Thompson. While xv6 preserves the structure and style of v6, it has been adapted for modern RISC-V multiprocessors and written in ANSI C.

Acknowledgments

The development of xv6 draws inspiration from John Lions's Commentary on UNIX 6th Edition (Peer to Peer Communications; ISBN: 1-57398-013-7; 1st edition, June 14, 2000). Additional resources related to Unix Version 6 can be found at MIT's xv6 page.

Contributions have been made by several individuals, including Russ Cox (context switching, locking), Cliff Frey (multiprocessing), Xiao Yu (multiprocessing), Nickolai Zeldovich, and Austin Clements.

Special thanks go to the many contributors who provided bug reports and patches: Takahiro Aoyagi, Marcelo Arroyo, Silas Boyd-Wickizer, Anton Burtsev, Carlclone, Ian Chen, Dan Cross, Cody Cutler, Mike CAT, Tej Chajed, Asami Doi, Wenyang Duan, Eyalz800, Nelson Elhage, Saar Ettinger, Alice Ferrazzi, Nathaniel Filardo, Flespark, Peter Froehlich, Yakir Goaron, Shivam Handa, Matt Harvey, Bryan Henry, Jaichenhengjie, Jim Huang, Matúš Jókay, John Jolly, Alexander Kapshuk, Anders Kaseorg, Kehao95, Wolfgang Keller, Jungwoo Kim, Jonathan Kimmitt, Eddie Kohler, Vadim Kolontsov, Austin Liew, L0stman, Pavan Maddamsetti, Imbar Marinescu, Yandong Mao, Matan Shabtay, Hitoshi Mitake, Carmi Merimovich, Mark Morrissey, Mtasm, Joel Nider, Hayato Ohhashi, OptimisticSide, Phosphagos, Harry Porter, Greg Price, RayAndrew, Jude Rich, Segfault, Ayan Shafqat, Eldar Sehayek, Yongming Shen, Fumiya Shigemitsu, Snoire, Taojie, Cam Tenny, Tyfkda, Warren Toomey, Stephen Tu, Alissa Tung, Rafael Ubal, Amane Uehara, Pablo Ventura, Xi Wang, Waheed Hafez, Keiichi Watanabe, Lucas Wolf, Nicolas Wolovick, Wxdao, Grant Wu, X653, Jindong Zhang, Icenowy Zheng, ZhUyU1997, and Zou Chang Wei.

Error Reporting

For error reports or suggestions, please contact Frans Kaashoek and Robert Morris at kaashoek@mit.edu and rtm@mit.edu. The primary purpose of xv6 is to serve as a teaching operating system for MIT's course 6.1810. Simplifications and clarifications are prioritized over new features.

Building and Running xv6

To build and run xv6, you will need the RISC-V "newlib" toolchain, which can be obtained from the official RISC-V GNU Toolchain repository, and QEMU compiled for riscv64-softmmu. After installing these tools and ensuring they are in your system's search path, you can build and run xv6 by executing the make qemu command in the project directory.
